I appreciate your work on Project Euler, it demonstrates your problem solving ability and algorithmic approach. However, working on real life projects also requires that you have a good programming style and a good understanding of the project.

The specific skill set required will vary from project to project. Some may require you to have an understanding of Machine Learning as was the case with  this year with an accepted proposal [Project details] by Ruby Science Foundation, while other may require experience and understanding of UI and web design like an accepted proposal [Project details] by openSUSE and so on.

Some organisations like Mozilla Foundation even require you to submit a patch to a bug with your proposal. So you can learn how to make and use patches.

So there is no magic bullet, but however there are a few things that do help,

    Having some previous experience with open-source projects.
    Willingness to learn. (It is among the most important things in life)


Before the GSoC starts:
There are months left for GSoC'14 (GSoC'13 isn't even half way through at the moment). You can utilise this very to strenghten your prospects.
You can develop the following skill-set which will give you an advantage:

    Find an open-source project that interests you and start reading its code-base. If you're lucky you might end-up working on the same project as a part of GSoC'14.
    Learn about standard programming practices for the language of your choice. For example, for Python read PEP8.
    Join the mailing lists of projects that interest you, follow discussions.
    Hang around the IRC channels and ask for help when you need it but before that learn the etiquette of IRC.
    Get yourself github or launchpad account and fork projects, who knows you may end up getting commit privileges to the project
    Always be respectful and patient. Many of the contributors have other day-time jobs they'll respond when they feel appropriate.
    Move over to the Linux and start using open-source tools.





















https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HtSuA80QTyo&list=PLxZdKEtmy3GRhETjatYq9v3O8VVt3YrNb

GSoC Proposal Period:
This period starts when the accepted organisations and the ideas list is published. It lasts roughly for a month and is a crucial period.
Depending on your choices you can either choose a project idea from the idea list or submit an idea of your own.
Choosing an idea

    Find out the projects that meet skill-set, like your knowledge in the field, you experience with the language etc.
    Discuss the project idea with the mentor and/or community of the project via e-mail or IRC. Always remember to be humble.
    Understand the project, the goals of implementation and work-out a timeline for your project.
    Have the community/mentor review your timeline and put down a clear proposal.

Proposing an idea
Now this is a tough task. You have an awesome idea about something you want to work on under GSoC, to do so you need to:

    Find the appropriate and relevant mentoring organisation. Don't end up posting the idea to the wrong organisation you'll be rejected straight-away no matter how brilliant your idea is.
    Post the idea on ideas page of the organisation and get review
    Find a mentor, somebody who's interested in topic and knows about it and has time to guide you in it.
    Chalk out the project specifics, the goals of implementation and work-out a timeline for your project. Make sure your mentor agrees with them.


For additional details refer to: AdviceforStudents - google-summer-of-code - Advice for GSoC Students - Google Summer of Code - Google Project Hosting

GSoC coding period[Updated below]:
It is a 3 month journey where you'll learn a lot on a regular basis. If you're lucky you'll love belonging to the community of developers.
An important thing is sticking to the schedule and remaining dedicated to work.

As my project is still under progress I'll update more later. :)

Update 1(9/11/2013):

GSoC Coding Period:
Sorry for the very delayed update. At this point I've successfully passed my GSoC'13 evaluations and have earned the right to call myself a GSoC'er. :)

The coding period ended in on 16th September with the final week from 17-23Sept left for final touches, documentation and so on. I had a few hiccups in the 3month long coding period (details on which can be read in my blogpost GSoC'13: The journey and experience ).

A few lessons for GSoC:

    Expect a slow start: I had a slow start(I had anticipated it in my proposed timeline) in the first week during which I spent a lot of time on smaller parts of code, which however wasn't that bad since it helped me gain momentum later on.
    Spend some time reviewing future plans looking for dependencacies/requirements. A part of my code (YaST interfacing to be precise) required YaST plugins for Python3 (which did not exist) while the ones for Python2 weren't maintained. This discovery early on (also the fact YaST moved to Ruby) allowed us to work on a different idea later on (which I could not implement).
    Watchout for (big) changes: Initially we were working with Python3 as per the proposal but a couple of weeks in and we discovered that Python3 wasnt available in Ubuntu Server by default and hence I had to make my code Python2 and Python3 compatible (which at times got a bit tricky).
    Try to be ahead of your timeline or as close to it (unless you overhaul it): A lot can happen in the 3months period so if you're close to your timeline instead of lagging (I lagged behind due to other things popping up) behind you can recover to a great extent.
    Always communicate with your mentor, let them know what you're doing. They'll understand when you need breaks for your exams, internship tests, summit trips, etc. But be honest with your work.
    Learn as much as you can
    Be prepared to adjust your daily schedules/biological clocks. My mentor was from a different timezone and hence the time he was (CET) available was usually late into night by my timezone (IST: UTC +5:30). I did not have much trouble adjusting to his timezone being an "owl" (my mother did have issues with me going to bed at 7AM). Though this when I moved to college and started having classes for the last 1 month.


Final Words:
I somehow managed to be in vicinity of my goals by mid-term evaluation and accomplished some goals by the end of coding period and my mentor was nice enough to pass me acknowledging my efforts. :)

I hope to continue the work I started and get the work encorporated into the official release soon. That is the main idea of GSoC (in my opinion): Bring new student developers into the community and encourage existing ones who'll become the part of the community.
It is a lot of fun and a bit of work. You'll have the time of your life (I did) and a get a good paycheck in the process too. ;-)

P.S.: One big tip, Always be patient and respectful to everyone. This goes without saying but once in a while some jerk shows up on his high-horse, so was worth a mention